# Limits and options of the motion commands

## Library
tf5430_tc3_xplanar

## Category
Motion Control

# Limits and options of the motion commands

The Planar mover can execute different types of motion commands. Except for the special case of external setpoint generation, these are similar in structure. The following applies to the rest of the motion commands. The first parameter of the method call is always the feedback for the command that the user transfers. If he transfers a "0", this implies that he does not want to have (or use) feedback. The next one or two parameters describe the destination of the motion and they cannot be completely omitted. The next parameters are the dynamic limits that should be observed during motion. If the user transfers a "0" here, the default values are used (TCOM parameters of the mover in the MC Project). The last parameter is the option object, which differs depending on the command.

## Limits

Each motion command runs in the optimal time. For the resulting trajectory to be continuous, the time derivatives of the position must be limited. The limits include maximum values for the velocity, positive and negative acceleration, and jerk. If the values specified here exceed the maximum dynamic limits of the mover (TCOM parameters of the mover in the MC Project), they are reduced accordingly, a warning is issued and the command is executed with reduced dynamic values. There is only one Limit or Constraint object. This is understood to be a limitation of the dynamics tangential to the direction of movement of the mover.

For external setpoint generation the only parameters are Feedback and Options.

**From version V3.1.10.30:** The limits should be replaced by Constraints, see [Dynamic constraints](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-7f33-45cf-add9-135bc409a7e2).

## Options

The options vary depending on the command:

MoveToPosition/JoinTrack/LeaveTrack: The only option of these commands is the "UseOrientation" flag. This flag indicates whether or not the C coordinate of the XYC target position should also be used. If not, the C-coordinate can be moved separately via "MoveC".

MoveOnTrack: The first option is the "gap". This numerical value indicates the distance to the mover in front during the motion (and after that until the next motion command on the track). This distance is measured along the track (difference between the track positions of the two movers). Therefore, curves in the track must be taken into account, as they reduce the real 2D distance. The gap is calculated from center to center, therefore the width of the movers must be taken into account. The second option is "Direction", the direction of travel on the track towards the destination. This can assume the values "NonModulo" (= absolute), "Positive" (= forward), "ShortestWay" (= shortest way) and "Negative"(= backward). If the destination is reachable in the appropriate direction, the command is executed.

**From version V3.1.10.30:** The third option is "AdditionalTurns": the number of additional laps driven on a "Closed Loop" track with "Direction" "Positive" or "Negative". For other "Direction" cases, "AdditionalTurns" must be zero. The fourth option is "ModuloTolerance". This parameter is used to avoid unintended rotations when the start and target positions are very similar. If the distance between the start and target position is less than or equal to the "ModuloTolerance", the target position is approached by the shortest route (as with "Direction" = "Shortest Way"), i.e. against the specified "Direction". For the "Direction" "NonModulo" the ModuloTolerance must be zero. For details, see [Modulo positioning](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-b707-4905-b887-f0cfc84eafbd).

**From version V3.1.10.30:** MoveC: The first option is "AdditionalTurns": the number of additional whole C-turns related to the "C coordinate modulus" parameter of the mover with "Direction" "Positive" or "Negative". For other "Direction" cases, "AdditionalTurns" must be zero. The second option is "Direction": the direction of rotation of the C coordinate towards the target. This can assume the values "NonModulo" (= absolute), "Positive" (= forward), "ShortestWay" (= shortest way) and "Negative"(= backward). For details, see [Modulo positioning](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-b707-4905-b887-f0cfc84eafbd).

**From version V3.1.10.51:** AdoptTrackOrientation: The first option is "AdditionalTurns": The number of additional whole C-turns related to the "C coordinate modulus" parameter of the mover with "Direction" "Positive" or "Negative". For other "Direction" cases, "AdditionalTurns" must be zero. The second option is "Direction": the direction of rotation of the C-coordinate towards the target. This can assume the values "NonModulo" (= absolute), "Positive" (= forward), "ShortestWay" (= shortest way) and "Negative"(= backward). For details, see [Modulo positioning](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-b707-4905-b887-f0cfc84eafbd).

**From version V3.1.10.44:** GearInPosOnTrack: The first option is the "Gap", which has the same interpretation here as with MoveOnTrack. The second parameter is the "InSyncToleranceDistance". It specifies how far the master and slave may move away from each other before the active Planar mover loses its synchronicity. The following two options are "Direction" and "ModuloTolerance", which both refer to the parameter "SlaveSyncPosition" (as input at the function call). These options are only available if the Planar track on which the Planar mover performs its synchronization movement is a closed loop. In this case, the interpretation of these options is analogous to that for MoveC, where here the modulus is given by the length of the Planar track. For details, see [Modulo positioning](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-b707-4905-b887-f0cfc84eafbd). The last parameter "AllowedSlaveSyncDirections" specifies in which direction, i.e. positive (default), negative or both, the Planar mover is allowed to move during the synchronization phase. This parameter can be used, for example, to prevent a back oscillation, which would occur with the option "Both", in order to achieve the fastest possible synchronization. If the Planar mover is in sync, or has been in sync, and is currently trying to get back in sync, this parameter has no further effect.

**From version V3.1.10.30:** GearInPosOnTrackWithMasterMover: The first four options, "Gap", "InSyncToleranceDistance", as well as the two modulo options for the SlaveSyncPosition, are identical in their meaning to the first four options of the GearInPosOnTrack command. This is followed by two parameters "Direction" and "ModuloTolerance" for the MasterSyncPosition, which are available in the same way as the modulo parameters for the SlaveSyncPosition when the Master Planar Mover is on a closed-loop track. The following option "AllowedSlaveSyncDirections" has exactly the same function as the GearInPosOnTrack command. If the last option, "FollowMover", is set, it ensures that the Slave Planar Mover does not necessarily have to obtain a [Planar TrackTrail](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-6aff-4b37-aeaf-0ee7bb1946de) to know over which Planar tracks it will perform its movement. The Slave Planar Mover will simply follow the Master Planar Mover as it moves through the network. If the Master Planar Mover and the Slave Planar Mover are on different Planar tracks when the motion command is received and the "FollowMover" option is set, the slave will try to reach the Planar track on which the MasterSyncPosition is commanded by the shortest route. In addition to the "FollowMover" option, a PlanarTrackTrail can be specified for the Slave Planar Mover. In this case, it is used to command the path to the Planar track on which the MasterSyncPosition lies (e.g. if it is to deviate from the shortest path). If it does not fully reach this Planar track, the remaining path is filled with the shortest route. If a PlanarTrackTrail is specified when the "FollowMover" option is set, the SlaveSyncPosition can be specified on a different Planar track than its initial one. In general, the following rule applies: if the "FollowMover" option is set, the Slave Planar Mover follows the master from the Planar track on which the MasterSyncPosition is located, regardless of whether a PlanarTrackTrail object has been specified.

**Addition version V3.1.10.30 - Option was already available before with a different type:** StartExternalSetpointGeneration: Here the user has the choice between the mode "Absolute" and "Relative". In absolute mode, the mover follows only the external setpoints specified by the user and is in ExternalSetpointGeneration command mode; otherwise, the mover is in any other command mode and adds the user's external setpoints as an offset to its current setpoint.
