# E_TcMcEncoderType (from V3.0)

## Library
tf5810_tc3_hydraulic_positioning

## Category
Motion Control

1. [TwinCAT PLC Hydraulics](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-18ff-48cf-8a46-004002f87446)
2. [PLCopen Motion Control](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-1ded-451e-88ec-a82873484e92)
3. [Data types](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-25bd-4475-8df7-6d29ea7ab5ff)
4. E\_TcMcEncoderType (from V3.0)

# E\_TcMcEncoderType (from V3.0)

The constants listed here are used to identify the hardware used to acquire the actual values for an axis.

```
                                TYPE E_TcMcEncoderType :(  
(*  
    The sequence below must not be changed!  
    New types have to be added at the end.  
    In case a type becomes obsolete it has to be replaced by a dummy  
    to ensure the numerical meaning of the other codes.  
*)  
(*  
    Die bestehende Reihenfolge darf nicht veraendert werden.  
    Neue Typen muessen am Ende eingefuegt werden.  
    Wenn ein Typ wegfallen sollte, muss er durch einen Dummy  
    ersetzt werden, um die numerische Zuordnung zu garantieren.  
*)  
(* last modification: 17.01.2013 *)  
iTcMc_EncoderSim,  
iTcMc_EncoderDigIncrement,  
iTcMc_EncoderLowCostStepper,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL2521,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL3042,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL5001,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL5101,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx2000_B900R,  
iTcMc_EncoderDigCam,  
iTcMc_EncoderIx5009,  
iTcMc_EncoderM2510,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL3002,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL2531,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL5111,  
iTcMc_EncoderAbs32,  
iTcMc_EncoderM3120,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL2541,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL3102,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL3142,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL5001,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL5101,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL5111,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL3062,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL3162,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx2000_B200R,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx2000_B110R,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL3162,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL2542,  
iTcMc_EncoderKL2545,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx2000_B110A,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx5000_B110A,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx2000_B750A,  
iTcMc_EncoderCoE_DS406,  
iTcMc_EncoderCoE_DS402SR,  
iTcMc_EncoderAx5000_B110SR,  
iTcMc_EncoderCoE_DS402A,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL2521,  
iTcMc_EncoderAbs32Etc,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL7201SR,  
iTcMc_EncoderDigPulseCount,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL3255,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL7047,   
iTcMc_DriveEM8908A,   
iTcMc_DriveEM8908C,   
iTcMc_EncoderCoE5001,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL7201A,  
iTcMc_DriveAx5000_B110INC,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL5032,  
iTcMc_EncoderEL5021,  
iTcMc_Encoder_TestOnly:=1000  
);  
END_TYPE
```

**iTcMc\_EncoderAbs32**: The absolute actual position is generated from the 32-bit value of a general electronic input system.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAbs32Etc**: The absolute actual position is generated from the 32-bit value of a general EtherCAT electronic input system. Profile support is not a precondition.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx2000\_B110R**: The incremental actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX2000 actuator at a resolver motor at the EtherCAT fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx2000\_B110A**: The absolute actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX2000 actuator at an absolute multi-turn encoder motor at the EtherCAT fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx2000\_B200R**: The incremental actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX2000 actuator at a resolver motor at the Beckhoff II/O fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx2000\_B750A**: The absolute actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX2000 actuator at an absolute multi-turn encoder motor at the Sercos fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx2000\_B900R**: The incremental actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX2000 actuator at a resolver motor at the Beckhoff RealTime Ethernet fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx5000\_B110A**: The absolute actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX5000 actuator at an absolute multi-turn encoder motor at the EtherCAT fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx5000\_B110SR**: The incremental actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX5000 actuator at a single turn encoder motor at the EtherCAT fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderAx5000\_B110INC**: The incremental actual position is determined from the counter value of an AX5000 actuator at an incremental encoder at the EtherCAT fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderDigCam**: The position cam byte is generated from four digital input bits.

**iTcMc\_EncoderDigPulseCount:** Counts the edges (positive and negative) of pulses. The direction of rotation is determined via the drive output.

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 55011311 | Only one pulse can be detected per PLC cycle. |

**iTcMc\_EncoderDigIncrement**: The incremental actual value of the axis is generated by evaluating two digital input bits. These represent the A and B tracks of an incremental encoder, and are evaluated, in accordance with the principle of a quadrature decoder, using quadruple evaluation.

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 25339754 | Only one of the input bits may change its state in each PLC cycle. This means that the maximum velocity is one increment per TCycle. |

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL2521**: The incremental actual position is generated from the pulse counter of an EL2521 Pulse Train terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL3102**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a ±10V EL3102 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL3142**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a 0..20 mA EL3142 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL3162**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a 0..10V EL3162 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL3255**: In preparation.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL5021**: The absolute actual position is generated from the counter value of an EL5021 sin/cos input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL5032**: The absolute actual position is generated from the counter value of an EL5032 EnDat-2.2 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL5001**: The absolute actual position is generated from the counter value from an EL5001 SSI input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL5101**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from an EL5101 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL5111**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from an EL5111 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL7041**: The incremental actual position is generated from the pulse counter (motor pulse or encoder) of an EL7041 stepper motor terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderEL7201SR:** The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from an EL7201 servo terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderCoE\_DS402A**: In preparation.

**iTcMc\_EncoderCoE\_DS402SR**: In preparation.

**iTcMc\_EncoderCoE\_DS406**: An encoder with CoE\_406 support at the EtherCAT fieldbus.

**iTcMc\_EncoderIx5009**: The absolute actual position is generated from the counter value of an SSI IP/IE5009 Fieldbus Box.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL2521**: The incremental actual position is generated from the pulse counter of a KL2521 Pulse Train terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL2531**: The incremental actual position is generated from the pulse counter of a KL2531 stepper motor terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL2541**: The incremental actual position is generated from the pulse counter (motor pulse or encoder) of a KL2541 stepper motor terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL2542**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from a KL2542 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL2545**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from a KL2542 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL3002**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a ±10V KL3002 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL3042**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a 0..20 mA KL3042 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL3062**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a 0..10 V KL3062 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL3162**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a 0..10V KL3162 analog input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL5001**: The absolute actual position is generated from the counter value from a KL5001 SSI input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL5101**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from a KL5101 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderKL5111**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value from a KL5111 input terminal.

**iTcMc\_EncoderLowCostStepper**: Incremental changes to the actual position are generated from the output signals for a digitally operated stepper motor.

**iTcMc\_EncoderM2510**: The absolute actual position is generated from the ADW value of a ±10V M2510 analog input box.

**iTcMc\_EncoderM3120**: The incremental actual position is generated from the counter value of an M3120 Lightbus module.

**iTcMc\_EncoderSim**: The virtual actual position of the axis is a copy of the set position.

Note

**iTcMc\_EncoderSim**

On a real machine this type must only be used for virtual axes. Otherwise the axis will carry out uncontrolled and unpredictable movements.

**iTcMc\_Encoder\_TestOnly:** reserved for internal testing; do not use.

[TF5810 | TwinCAT 3 Hydraulic Positioning](ms-xhelp:///?Id=beckhoff-18ff-48cf-8a46-004002f87446)
